.TH DK 1 dk\-VERSION
.SH NAME
dk \- A tiling window manager in the vein of dwm, bspwm, and xmonad.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dk
.RB [ \-vh ]
.RB [ \-s
.RB \fISOCKET_FD\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Windows are managed in various layouts, and are grouped by workspaces.
Each window can be assigned to a single workspace and will have a
small border to indicate the focus state. Changes to one workspace will
not impact others. Workspaces can be dynamically or statically assigned
and viewed on any monitor, by default only one workspace per monitor is
created.
.PP
Monitors can be assigned one workspace at a time, all workspaces are available
from all monitors in dynamic mode, floating windows will retain their
relative location within each monitor area. If viewing an already visible
workspace on another monitor, the two workspaces will swap monitors when
dynamic, otherwise the mouse will be warped to the assigned monitor.
.PP
In tiled layout windows are organized in a master and two stack areas,
the number of masters and first stack windows can be adjusted
from 0-n with the second stack containing all remaining windows.
.PP
In monocle layout windows are maximized and stacked on top of each other with
only one visible at a time.
.PP
In grid layout windows attempt to occupy equal space with all being visible.
.PP
In spiral and dwindle layout windows occupy 1/2 the space of the previous,
moving inwards to the center of the screen or outwards to the bottom right
respectively.
.PP
In floating layout windows are not organized or placed in any particular way
and can be moved or resized freely.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Prints usage information to stdout and exits.
.TP
.B \-v
Prints version information to stdout and exits.
.TP
.B \-s
Use an existing socket connection file descriptor when restarting dk.
.SH CUSTOMIZATION
For basic changes dk can be customized by running commands through the
.B dkcmd
program.
.PP
On startup dk looks for a dkrc file in:
.IP \[bu] 2
.BR $DKRC
.IP \[bu] 2
.BR $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/dk/dkrc
.IP \[bu] 2
.BR $HOME/.config/dk/dkrc
.PP
and runs the first it can, this file must be executable.
This can be used to initialize settings, customization, and running programs.
.PP
Further configuration such as adding layouts or callbacks can be done by
copying config.def.h to config.h, editing it, and recompiling.
.SH DKCMD
.PP
Most of your interaction with the window manager will be using
\fIdkcmd\fR which writes one or more commands into the socket where
it is then read and parsed by the window manager.
.SH Syntax Outline
The commands have a very basic syntax and parsing, the input is broken
down into smaller pieces (tokens) which are then passed to the matching
keyword function, otherwise an error is returned.
.PP
Tokens are delimited by one or more:
.IP \[bu] 2
whitespace \fI(space or tab)\fR
.IP \[bu] 2
quotation mark \fI(\f[CI]\[aq]\fI or \f[CI]\[dq]\f[I])\f[R]
.IP \[bu] 2
equal sign \f[I](\f[CI]=\f[I])\f[R]
.PP
This means the following inputs are all equivalent.
.IP
.nf
\fI\f[C]
setting=value
setting value
setting=\[dq]value\[dq]
setting = \[aq]value\[aq]
setting \[dq]value\[dq]
setting     \[dq]value\[dq]
\f[R]
.fi
.PP
and result in two tokens: \fI\f[C]setting\f[R] and \fI\f[C]value\f[R]
Quotation exists as a way to preserve whitespace and avoid
interpretation by the shell, otherwise we have no way of determining
whether an argument is a continuation of the previous or the beginning
of the next. If the value being matched has quotes in it, they can be
escaped or strong quoted
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
title=\[dq]\[ha]\[rs]\[dq]preserved quotes\[rs]\[dq]$\[dq]
title=\[aq]\[ha]\[dq]preserved quotes\[dq]$\[aq]
\f[R]
.PP
.fi
For various commands dk will expect a certain data type or format to be
given.
.IP \[bu] 2
string: normal plain text, must be less than 256 characters.
.IP \[bu] 2
boolean: \f[C]true\f[R], \f[C]false\f[R], \f[C]1\f[R], or \f[C]0\f[R].
.IP \[bu] 2
hex: \f[C](0x/#)XXXXXXXX\f[R], used for window ids
.IP \[bu] 2
integer: \f[C](+/-)1\f[R], if it is preceded by a sign it is considered
relative.
.IP \[bu] 2
float: \f[C](+/-)0.1\f[R], same as integer but must contain a decimal
value.
.IP \[bu] 2
colour: \f[C](0x/#)[AA]RRGGBB\f[R], hex value, if no alpha channel is
given the colour is opaque.
.SH COMMANDS
\fI\fC
dkcmd COMMAND
\fR
.PP
\l'60'
.SS WM
.IP \[bu] 2
\fIquit\fR exit dk.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fIrestart\fR re-execute dk.
.SS Ws and Mon
.PP
\fC\fImon\fR and \fC\fIws\fR operate on monitors and workspaces
respectively.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fC\fICLIENT\fR (hex) The window id in hex to operate on, if
unspecified the active window is used.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fC\fITARGET\fR (integer/string) Name or number of the workspace or
monitor to target or strings
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\fC\fInext\fR relative forward
.IP \[bu] 2
\fC\fIprev\fR relative backward
.IP \[bu] 2
\fC\fIlast\fR last viewed
.IP \[bu] 2
\fC\fInextne\fR\fR next non-empty
.IP \[bu] 2
\fC\fIprevne\fR\fR previous non-empty
.RE
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
ws  [SUBCOMMAND] [CLIENT] TARGET
mon [SUBCOMMAND] [CLIENT] TARGET
\fR\fR
.fi
.SS Subcommands
.PP
\fC\fIview\fR\fR View the TARGET, default if no subcommand is given.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
ws view TARGET
ws TARGET
\fR\fR
.fi
.PP
\fC\fIsend\fR\fR Send CLIENT to the TARGET.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
mon send [CLIENT] TARGET
\fR\fR
.fi
.PP
\fC\fIfollow\fR\fR Follow CLIENT to the TARGET.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
ws follow [CLIENT] TARGET
\fR\fR
.fi
.PP
\l'60'
.SS Rule
.PP
\fCrule\fR operates on window rules.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fCMATCH\fR one or more regex strings to be used when matching
window properties.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fCSETTING\fR one or more window setting to be applied when a
matched window is encountered.
.IP
.nf
\fC
rule [SUBCOMMAND] MATCH SETTING
\fR
.fi
.SS Subcommands
.PP
\fI\fCapply\fR applies RULE to all matching windows, if RULE is
\fI\fC*\fR apply all rules and MATCH is ignored.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
rule apply RULE [MATCH]
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCremove\fR removes RULE, if RULE is \fI\fC*\fR remove all rules
and MATCH is ignored.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
rule remove RULE [MATCH]
\fR
.fi
.SS Settings
.PP
\fI\fCclass instance title type\fR (string) regex to match the window
class, instance, title, and type respectively (may be prefixed with
match_ for clarity). Regex matching is always done \f[B]case insensitive\fR
with extended regex mode enabled.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
rule [SUBCOMMAND] class=\[dq]\[ha]firefox$\[dq] instance=\[dq]\[ha]navigator$\[dq] title=\[dq]\[ha]mozilla firefox$\[dq] type=dialog [SETTING]
\fR
.BR
type currently only supports dialog and splash windows, all others are treated as normal windows.
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCws\fR (integer/string) determine what workspace the window should
be on.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
rule MATCH ws=1
rule MATCH ws=term
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCmon\fR (integer/string) determine what monitor the window should
be on.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
rule MATCH mon=1
rule MATCH mon=HDMI-A-0
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCx y w width h height bw border_width\fR (integer/string)
determine the window location and size.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCx\fR change the x coordinate, can be an integer or one of the following.
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCcenter left\fR and \fI\fCright\fR gravitate on the x coordinate.
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCy\fR change the y coordinate, can be an integer or one of the following.
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCcenter top\fR and \fI\fCbottom\fR gravitate on the y coordinate.
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCw width\fR change the window width.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCh height\fR change the window height.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCbw border_width\fR change the window border width.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
rule MATCH x=20 y=100 w=1280 h=720 bw=0
rule MATCH x=center y=center w=1280 h=720 bw=0
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCcallback\fR (string) determine a callback function to be invoked
on window open and close.
.in +.9i
.in +.9i
These are defined in the config header and compiled into the source,
.br
one example is provided.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
rule MATCH callback=albumart
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCfloat stick\fR (boolean) determine if the window should
be floating or stick respectively.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
rule MATCH float=true stick=true
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCignore\fR (boolean) determine if the window should ignore configure
request events.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
rule MATCH ignore=true
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCfocus\fR (boolean) determine if the window should be focused and
view it\[cq]s workspace.
.in +.8i
.in +.8i
If \fI\fCmon\fR is also set it will be activated first before viewing
the workspace.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
rule MATCH focus=true
\fR
.fi
.PP
\l'60'
.SS Set
.PP
\fI\fCset\fR operates on workspace or global configuration settings.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCSETTING\fR one or more settings to be changed.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCWS\fR the workspace which subcommand should apply to, if
unspecified the current is used.
.in +.3i
\fI_\fR is a special workspace used to define default values for
new workspaces which haven\[cq]t been created yet.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set [WS] SETTING
set ws=_ [apply] SETTING
\fR
.fi
.SS Set Options
.PP
\fI\fCnumws\fR (integer) change the number of workspaces to allocate.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set numws=10
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCname\fR (string) change the WS name.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set ws=1 name=\[dq]term\[dq]
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCstatic_ws\fR (boolean) disable dynamic workspaces for multi-head
systems.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set static_ws=false
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCmon\fR (integer/string) change which monitor WS should be on
(requires \fI\fCstatic_ws=true\fR).
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set ws=1 mon=HDMI-A-0
set ws=1 mon=1
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCmaster stack\fR (integer) change the number of windows
to occupy the master area (tile layout).
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set [WS] stack  3
set [WS] master +1 stack -1
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCmsplit ssplit\fR (float) change the workspace master or
stack split ratios respectively.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set [WS] msplit +0.1
set [WS] ssplit 0.55
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCgap\fR (integer) change the workspace gap width.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set [WS] gap 10
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCtile_hints\fR (boolean) whether to respect size hints in tiled layouts.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set tile_hints=true
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCtile_tohead\fR (boolean) whether to place new windows at the head
or the tail of the list in tiled layouts.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set tile_tohead=true
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCsmart_gap\fR (boolean) whether gaps are disabled on workspaces
with only one tiled window.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set smart_gap=true
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCsmart_border\fR (boolean) whether borders are disabled on workspaces
with only one tiled window.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set smart_border=true
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCfocus_urgent\fR (boolean) whether to focus windows that request it
through client messages.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set focus_urgent=true
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCfocus_open\fR (boolean) whether windows are focused upon first opening.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set focus_open=false
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCfocus_mouse\fR (boolean) whether window focus follows the mouse.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set focus_mouse=false
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCwin_minxy\fR (integer) amount of window (in pixels) to be kept on
the screen when moving.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set win_minxy=20
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCwin_minwh\fR (integer) minimum window size.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set win_minwh=50
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCapply\fR when changing the default \fI\fC_\fR workspace apply
settings to existing real workspaces.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set ws=_ apply SETTING
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fClayout\fR (string) change the workspace window layout.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCtile\fR windows are grouped into master and stack areas.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCrtile\fR tile layout with master area on the right
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCmono\fR windows arranged maximized and stacked on top of one another.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCgrid\fR all windows try to occupy equal space.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCspiral\fR windows shrink by 1/2 towards the center of the screen.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCdwindle\fR windows shrink by 1/2 towards the bottom right of the
screen.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCtstack\fR windows are grouped into a master area on the bottom and
one horizontal stack area on top.
screen
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCnone\fR floating layout, windows can be freely moved and resized,
those that don't have a location hint are arranged into a grid like layout
and attempting to not overlap other windows.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set [WS] layout mono
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCborder\fR change the window border sizes and colours.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCw width\fR (integer) change the overall window border
width.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCow outer outer_width\fR (integer) change the
outer border width (greater than 0 makes double borders).
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCcolour color\fR (string) change the border (overall and
outer) colour for various window states.
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCf focus\fR (colour) the active window border overall
colour.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCr urgent\fR (colour) urgent window border overall
colour.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCu unfocus\fR (colour) normal window border overall
colour.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCof outer_focus\fR (colour) the active window outer
border colour.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCor outer_urgent\fR (colour) urgent window outer border
colour.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCou outer_unfocus\fR (colour) normal window outer border
colour.
.RE
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set border w=5 ow=3 colour f=\[aq]#6699cc\[aq] u=\[aq]#444444\[aq] r=\[aq]#ee5555\[aq] of=\[aq]#222222\[aq] ou=\[aq]#222222\[aq] or=\[aq]#222222\[aq]
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCpad\fR change the workspace padding.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCl left\fR (integer) change the workspace left side
padding.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCr right\fR (integer) change the workspace right side
padding.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCt top\fR (integer) change the workspace top padding.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCb bottom\fR (integer) change the workspace bottom
padding.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set [WS] pad l=50 r=50 t=50 b=50
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCmouse\fR change the mouse binds for move and resize (global, does
not take a workspace).
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCmod\fR (string) change the modifier used in combination with move
resize buttons.
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCalt mod1\fR Alt key (default).
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCsuper mod4\fR Win key.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCctrl control\fR Ctrl key.
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCmove resize\fR (string) change the button used for move
and resize respectively.
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCbutton1\fR left mouse button.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCbutton2\fR right mouse button.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCbutton3\fR middle mouse button.
.RE
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
set mouse move=button1 resize=button2 mod=mod1
\fR
.fi
.PP
\l'60'
.SS Win
.PP
\fI\fCwin\fR operates on windows.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCCLIENT\fR (hex) the window id, if unspecified the current window
is used.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
win [CLIENT] ACTION
\fR
.fi
.SS Actions
.PP
\fI\fCcycle\fR cycle windows in place.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
win cycle
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCfloat\fR change the window floating state.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
win [CLIENT] float
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCfull\fR change the window fullscreen state.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
win [CLIENT] full
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCfakefull\fR change the window fake fullscreen state (allow
moving, resizing, and tiling when fullscreen).
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
win [CLIENT] fakefull
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCstick\fR change the window sticky state.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
win [CLIENT] stick
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCswap\fR change the window between it\[cq]s current location and
master.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
win [CLIENT] swap
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCkill\fR close the window.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
win [CLIENT] kill
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCfocus\fR (integer/string) change the focused window.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCnext\fR focus the next window.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCprev\fR focus the previous window.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
win CLIENT focus
win focus next
win focus +2
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCmvstack\fR (integer/string) move a tiled window around the stack.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCup\fR move the tiled window up the stack.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCdown\fR move the tiled window down the stack.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
win CLIENT mvstack up
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCresize\fR change the window size, location, and border width.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCx\fR change the x coordinate, can be an integer or one of the following.
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCcenter left\fR and \fI\fCright\fR gravitate on the x coordinate.
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCy\fR change the y coordinate, can be an integer or one of the following.
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCcenter top\fR and \fI\fCbottom\fR gravitate on the y coordinate.
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCw width\fR change the window width.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCh height\fR change the window height.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCbw border_width\fR change the window border width.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
win [CLIENT] resize x=100 y=100 w=1280 h=720 bw=1
win [CLIENT] resize x=center y=center w=1280 h=720 bw=1
\fR
.fi
.PP
\l'60'
.SS Status
.PP
\fI\fCstatus\fR operates on windows.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
status [TYPE] [FILE] [NUM]
\fR
.fi
.SS Settings
.PP
\fI\fCtype\fR the type of status to output.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCws\fR output workspace info.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCwin\fR output current window title.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fClayout\fR output current workspace layout name.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCbar\fR output simple info for use in bars (win, layout, and ws combined).
.IP \[bu] 2
\fI\fCfull\fR output the full wm and managed client state.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
status type=ws [FILE] [NUM]
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCfile\fR the location of the status file (if not passed stdout is used).
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
status file=/tmp/dk.status [TYPE] [NUM]
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fI\fCnum\fR the number of times to output, -1 is infinite and default if not passed.
.IP
.nf
\fI\fC
status [TYPE] [FILE]
status num=1 [TYPE] [FILE]
\fR
.fi
.SH BUGS
Please submit a bug report with as much detail as possible to
.B https://bitbucket.org/natemaia/dk/issues/new
.SH AUTHORS/CONTRIBUTORS
Nathaniel Maia <\fInatemaia10@gmail.com\fR>,
Dmitry Belitsky <\fIdmitry.belitsky@gmail.com\fR>
