.TH YAXWM 1 yaxwm\-VERSION
.SH NAME
yaxwm \- Yet another X window manager, as if we didn't have enough.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yaxwm
.RB [ \-vh ]
.RB [ \-s
.RB \fISOCKET_FD\fR]
.RB [ \-c
.RB \fICOMMAND\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
A tiling window manager taking inspiration from dwm, bspwm, and xmonad.
.P
Windows are managed in tiled, monocle, or floating layouts, and are grouped by
workspaces. Each window can be assigned to a single workspace and will have a
small border to indicate the focus state. Windows are grouped into workspaces
and changes to one workspace will not impact others. Workspaces can be
dynamically allocated and viewed on any monitor, by default only the bare
minimum is allocated to populate each monitor with a single workspace.
.P
Monitors can be assigned one workspace at a time, all workspaces are available
from all monitors, floating windows will retain their relative location
within each monitor area. If viewing an already visible workspace on another
monitor, the two workspaces will swap monitors.
.P
In tiled layout windows are organized in a master and two stack areas,
the number of masters and first stack windows can be adjusted
from 0-n with the second stack containing all remaining windows.
.P
In monocle layout windows are maximized and stacked on top of each other with
only one visible at a time.
.P
In floating layout windows are not organized or placed in any particular way
and can be moved or resized freely.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Prints usage information to stdout and exits.
.TP
.B \-v
Prints version information to stdout and exits.
.TP
.B \-s
Use an existing socket connection file descriptor when restarting yaxwm.
.TP
.B \-c
Pass all remaining arguments as a command to the running instance of yaxwm.
.SH USAGE
.SS COMMANDS
TODO - Somebody yell at me!
.SH CUSTOMIZATION
For basic changes yaxwm can be customized by running commands through the
.B -c
flag.
.P
On startup yaxwm looks for a yaxwmrc file in:
.TP
  - $YAXWMRC
.TP
  - $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/yaxwm/yaxwmrc
.TP
  - $HOME/.config/yaxwm/yaxwmrc
.P
in that order and runs the first it can, this file must be executable.
This can be used to initialize settings, customization, and running programs
on startup.
.P
Further configuration such as adding layouts or callbacks can be done by
copying yaxwm.def.h to yaxwm.h, editing it, and recompiling.
.SH BUGS
Please submit a bug report with as much detail as possible to
.B https://bitbucket.org/natemaia/yaxwm/issues/new
.SH AUTHORS/CONTRIBUTORS
Nathaniel Maia <\fInatemaia10@gmail.com\fR>,
Dmitry Belitsky <\fIdmitry.belitsky@gmail.com\fR>
